## Public Kaizen diary: inaugural entry

**What is this?**

*This is a publically accesssible Github diary in which I will document the changes I institute week to week which are intended to heighten my productivity and improve my life. Because this repository is public, I will naturally omit certain aspects of my life and things that I am dealing with — and instead focus on those improvements I am instituting which are mostly professional in nature. The Kaizen philosophy focuses on leveraging the power of small but continuous changes to create large change over time without the typical problems inherent in trying to change large things all at once. I'm also writing these in a very simple Linux text editor (Mousepad) so these aren't spellchecked or even proof-read. For anybody that stumbles onto this repository and is sufficiently interested to read I apologize for the inevitable typos that will make it through!*

### This week's Kaizen (occurred)

*This entry covers the week that has just concluded (W/C 07/06/20)*

#### Logging out to minimize social media distractions

The main change to my daily routine that I instituted this week was logging out of social media throughout the day.

The accounts which I am currently active on — for professional and personal reasons — are:

- Facebook (main offender: Facebook Groups!)
- Quora
- Reddit
- LinkedIn
- Twitter

Something that I have noticed: I am unable to put an account fully out of my mind until I have logged out and this impairs focus.

The methdology I have been using is to: check the accounts once in the morning, engage with users, and then log out.

I do the same in the evening.

This has made it much easier to get into, and maintain, extended periods of focus. Such as those that I have leveraged to edit and update my book (The Confused Freelancer's Guide to Technology).

I am using this distraction reduction technique in concert with my existing ones: namely going into [flight mode](https://www.danielrosehill.co.il/myblog/why-flight-mode-has-been-my-best-productivity-enhancing-intervention-to-date/) and handling WhatsApp conversations in batches and periodically. 

While this week was far better than previous ones, social media remains a distraction that stands in the way of enhanced productivity. 


### Next week's Kaizen (planned)

#### Queueing social media questions

To institute W/C 15/06/20:

##### 1: Social media post queueing system

The main issue I encountered while making this transition is that I will spontaneously think of things that I would like to, say, post on Facebook. This, in turn, will become a distraction as I do not want to lose the thought or not ask a question that might help clarify some aspect of my business. Most of the things that it occurrs to me to post on social media are at least somewhat worthwhile.

For instance, while working on an article it might come to mind that I want to pose a particular question in the YouTube Creators Group about filming a certain video with a certain backdrop — such as the one I need to do when I unbox the NAS next week. The example is unimportant. But the information which I glean from these interactions is substantial and helpful. In other words, I don't want to cut this out entirely. Rather, I want to limit the activity to a fixed time so that it doesn't interfere with the work that I typically need to get done. There is no reason why this should not be the case too — I can think of very few times in which there was a task dependency between obtaining knowledge from social media and then doing something else. In project management terms, it's not a critical path.

Therefore, I think that it would be helpful to have some sort of first entry system in which I could capture these questions before I forget them — along the lines of what the GTD methodology advocates and David Allen's writings (never looked into whether scientifically validated) about how open loops impair focus and the importance of therefore always having a convenient place in which to document things. Todoist already serves this purpose well for all my other 'first entry' documentation needs so I should find ways to make it more easily accessible for this purpose — by opening a project for social media things to post. I have just created a Chrome App for Todoist and I can create a keyboard shortcut if the desktop icon isn't quick enough to jump in and out of.

So my change for next week will be to get into the habit of collecting things to post and do in these various channels so that I can do them in a batch later. The latency period that this entails might allow me to gather my thoughts better and/or resolve questions independently before I feel a need to ask others for their input. This methdology could be used to good effect, I believe, with storing questions for Facebook groups and Quora.

I also believe that Facebook Groups and social media channels are not necessarily the best places to look for authoritative information on a subject — even though their format makes them approachable and convenient. Perhaps relying less upon these fora will have the additional positive effect of causing me to spend more time reading things like books and obtaining information from "deeper" sources like webinars and conference speeches posted on YouTube. Seeing past the small detail is something that I struggle with greatly. I feel like the questions and answer format that Quora and Facebook Groups encourage is helpful in some respects but also encourages people like me to view our problems somewhat myopically. Again, focusing on higher quality and higher level resources might be beneficial in this respect. 


##### 2: Holding writing in a staging area


**Github implementation**

Another totally random idea came to mind during coffee with X earlier in the week. I've had this very vague idea for a while that the staging methodology in software could be used in writing to good effect. You could say that working on a document locally is a sort of staging system I guess. But something a little bit more elaborate — if just for my own purposes — would be cool. What I'm thinking of is some sort of system that would resemble a funnel: I'd have an intake folder for first drafts. Then a folder for drafts in review. Finally a folder for articles that I'm actively pitching offsite. And finally a folder for articles that have already been placed and so are finished. I guess the advantage over organizing my folders with this system — as I already do — would be that I'd be able to potentially create a system whereby the final draft (ready for public access) had a different share permission than the preceding folders. I could achieve the same in pCloud but feel like Github would be more elegant. And force a process whereby each document had to go through a number of stages before being sent on. My only concern would be that articles I work on locally wouldn't be automatically saved regularly to the cloud - unlike my current methodology (which prevents data loss). Would there be a way of saving LibreOffice documents straight into a Github repository and then figuring out a way to periodically but automatically push the repository? I will look into the idea this week. I have invested quite a lot of time recently in pushing out content (Medium, my website) that is a little rough around the edges and which needs to be produced at a slower volume to give more time to develop the ideas and for quality control things like spell checking. Less better writing rather than more. Something like a rigorous staging system might be advantageous towards that end. 

<hr>


### Action items

Concrete actions to take for next week:

- Continue staying logged out of social media during day
- Begin loading posts for various social accounts into a queue. Refine best methodology for this during te week.
- When the next discrete business problem/question arises (e.g.: pitching enterprise clients rather than startups & SMBs) see if I can find an ebook / YouTube video / some deeper and longer resource to help resolve the problem. See if this methodology produces more favorable results than instinctively turning to social crowdsourcing
- Think further about what kind of a system I could institute to put the next piece of writing I am thinking in through a well organized and designed staging sytem to create better quality work. Play around with the Github repository idea. See if sharing permissions can be controlled granularly. If not, look into other ways I might be able to improve upon the Wordpress pitchwire system which I configured for this reason.






