## Reading time

Today's Kaizen idea is pretty simple.

For years, I've been meditating on and off.

However it's probably been a year or two since I managed to maintain a regular practice.

Undoubtedly, meditation has many benefits. And these days, I'm feeling its abscence very much (scattered mind; too many things competing for focus; etc).

Many have made the case that reading [is a form of meditation](http://www.theconsciousprofessional.com/reading-form-meditation/). Or — if one is flexible about the definition — that any activity in which one focuses on one thing is.

I have been reading quite a lot on my Kindle recently. And I always leave a "session" feeling much more relaxed and focus — akin to the feeling one has after meditating.

I have already populated my Kindle library with a massive [reading list](https://medium.com/@danielrosehill/my-three-year-long-non-fiction-reading-list-150-books-a4806d88508b). So there is no shortage of material to continue working through.

But what is (non fiction) reading and how should it fit in with my workday?

Warren Buffet is both a voracious reader [and proponent](https://www.inc.com/marcel-schwantes/warren-buffett-says-anyone-can-achieve-success-by-following-1-simple-formula-he-uses-every-day.html#:~:text=He%20is%20a%20voracious%20reader,think%2C%22%20Buffett%20once%20said.) of reading. In fact, he spends 80% of his day reading. 

Clearly — at least right now — spending 80% of the day reading is neither feasible nor desirable. However, it would certainly be worthwhile instituting a set number of hours per day — perhaps two — to dedicate to reading.

Maybe the reading slots could bookend the working day — one hour at either end? Or maybe just start with thirty minutes?

In any event, and regardless of the specifics, the objective is to find — this week — a way to integrate reading as part of a fixed work schedule and not something that happens haphazardly whenever I feel like it.

I'll start with 1 hour at the start of each day and see if I can find time for one hour more. If I feel that a midday reading session would be more advantageous then I will try that. The aim will be, through trial and error, to determine what suits me and my preferences best.

To synthesize the information properly it will also be important to continue to keep diligent highlights — and to catalogue what I have read, and give my thoughts on those, for posterity on Goodreads and Amazon.

## Action Items

* Set a daily target for how long I will spend working through my non fiction reading library.
* Experiment with various reading durations and times to see what suits my schedule best
* Going forward, institute the preferred timing as a fixed daily practice that is a regular part of my workday.
